---
title: Until next time.
description: I cannot believe it痴 already been an entire year in ISM. I知 extremely content with how this year h...
date: 2021-05-11
draft: false
slug: /blog/Until-next-time.
tags: 
---
I cannot believe it痴 already been an entire year in ISM. I知 extremely content with how this year has gone, despite not achieving some of my goals. It all began with my Original Work. I had ambitious dreams for how it would turn out, but I was quite naive. My main issue was a lack of understanding of the importance of data and how difficult it is obtaining it. I originally wanted to create a program that could simply look at pictures of a DNA molecule to determine the organism it belonged to, but I would have required microscopes and cameras, which are only truly available in research laboratories. However, I learned a lot throughout this experience; I learned how to actually access databases in Python, which involved quite a bit of web scraping and analysis. I also got introduced to machine learning through Python. 

Throughout all this, I was cold calling several people in an attempt to find an interview/mentorship. I managed to interview 3 people before landing on my mentor, but those three people served to be extremely important connections for my. In fact, the first person I interviewed ended up hiring me as a Data Scientist intern for a start up that he was beginning (I知 extremely excited). The mentor that I landed ended up being extremely beneficial as well, especially with my Final Product. He explained to me the importance of research and data in Artificial Intelligence. 

He also taught me a four phase system of approaching any Data Science problem. This system is what I used to complete my Final Product, which was an energy source regionalization software based on climate data in Texas. In essence, the program was to look at all of the climate data and energy consumption across Texas to create regions for each optimal energy source. The goal of my Final Product was to reduce carbon dioxide production by energy sources. This may sound like an extremely ambitious project in the goals it attempts to meet, but I ended up succeeding. My Final Product ended up exactly how I envisioned it in the beginning, and this fact alone makes me extremely happy. I managed to come up with an idea, plan out a solution, and completely solve the idea with minor guidance from my mentor. Throughout this experience, I had to learn just that; I needed to learn how to access climate data through government APIs, how to convert that data into usable data, and how to analyze all of this to display in an effective manner. And, quite honestly, those are all of the required skills to be a Data Scientist. This is perfect because now I am able to apply everything I learned to the internship that I obtained this summer. From what it looks like, I will be doing essentially the same work as a real Data Scientist, which will give me a lot of real word experience. 

I would not have been able to participate in such an experience without ISM, because it allowed me to form connections and learn about my field. I said this several times throughout my blog posts, but I値l say it again: I知 excited. 

